Mr. Kotaro! Please tell us
what happened!
They completely
cleaned us out.
These guys made off with
every last jewel in the safe.
Looks like the case
that you guys solved
was a well‐planned out
diversion just to distract us.
Oh no!
Damn!
It's a group of guys who call
themselves "noble thieves."
The Byakuya Gang?
They've been active
in several other villages
all over.
They're anonymous.
They leave no trace,
no matter where they've been.
I'm about to investigate
the safe.
I wanna come with you
to check it out, sir!
That's not a good idea.
It's too cold in there
without proper clothing.
I'll be fine.
I've trained for
stuff like that.
It's freezing in here!
[shivering]
It says they always keep
the temperature
at minus 20 degrees.
If it goes up even one degree,
the alarm's programmed
to go off.
It's near impossible
to steal things in here
without the sensors
picking it up.
That's interesting.
Then that means
this whole operation
was most likely
an inside job.
Yeah, we're investigating
from that angle as well.
I sure hope Boruto's okay
in there.
I imagine he must be shivering
his butt off right about now.
[gasp]
All right!
Here's to successfully
clearing the tunnel!
You did such
an amazing job, Metal!
Thank you.
I realized I am exceptionally
good at digging holes as well!
Well, you did put holes
in the Great Stone Faces
once upon a time.
B‐But...back then...
I got s‐so nervous.
I‐I didn't d‐do it
on p‐purpose!
Lemme guess.
You're thinking about
the Byakuya Gang again.
It's been five days.
I don't feel much like
celebrating
until I can catch
those stupid bastards.
(SHIKADAI)
Konohamaru Sensei warned you
not to take any action
on your own.
Yeah, but I can't tell you
how frustrated I am!
Hey, what're "noble thieves"?
Well technically speaking,
the definition of
"noble thieves,"
is a gang of guys
who steal from the rich
and give to the poor.
Yeah, but stealing
is stealing,
no matter what excuse
you come up with.
Right, Sarada?
Excuse me.
I'm trying to read my book.
Oh, boo hoo.
What do you think, Shikadai?
(SHIKADAI) Oh, everybody
has their own reasons
for stealing, you know?
There's more to the world
than what we see at home.
And what they teach at
the Academy
is only theoretical.
Maybe someday,
when we go on missions,
we'll have to face
the same thing.
But I wouldn't know...
So what exactly
are you saying then?
I'm saying you shouldn't
just go around
defining things
in black and white.
You sound like
a jaded old man!
Sitting over there acting
like you've seen it all!
It's true.
I can't believe
you're the same age as us.
I know, right?!
Hm.
Ugh... That's enough already.
Let's not talk about me, okay?
I just wanna go with the flow.
I'm not looking to standout.
I'm not like you.
I don't necessarily wanna
go poking around
into stuff that's
none of my business.
It is what it is.
But I never get tired of
getting a piece of the action.
All right already.
Can't you see I'm busy now?
(BORUTO)
What're you doing?
I'm playing a game
called shogi.
My dad said if I figure out
this Shogi strategy,
then he'll give me some money.
But man, it's such a drag!
So each one of those pieces
is a character?
Yeah, you could say that.
What kind of items
do you get to use?
This game doesn't have any
ultimate moves or items,
actually.
What kind of game is that?
It sounds boring.
[chuckle]
Hmmm...
Hey, why don't you move
this piece over here?
The Gold General can't move
diagonally or backwards.
So all the moves are decided
ahead of time?
Can you shut up now?
You're so annoying.
[gasp]
I think I just
figured it out.
Where are you going?
What'd you figure out?
(SARADA)
Just come with me!
[grunt]
They're always doing things
on the spur of the moment.
Where do they get
their motivation from anyway?
It is because they are in
the springtime of youth!
Ya really think so?
Hold on...
You're leaving too, Shikadai?
Yeah. I'm stuck, so I'm gonna
try to rethink things
by moving to another spot.
What am I holding
in my hand?
It's a flower?
The correct answer is
"a frozen flower."
It was in front of
the bank safe.
I've been thinking...
How is it possible that
a flower outside the safe
was able to stay frozen?
And that's when I suddenly
remembered this.
(BORUTO)
Ice Style?
(MITSUKI) You mean...
an Ice jutsu?
(SARADA)
You're both aware that
we use five styles
of ninjutsu, right?
Fire,
Water,
Earth,
Lightning,
and Wind.
Look, if I wanted a lesson,
I'd go to school.
Hang on.
But there are other
styles of jutsu in the world.
There's jutsu
that is passed on
only to certain clans.
Those jutsu are the ones
called Kekkei Genkai.
Is that similar to
the Sharingan
of the Uchiha Clan?
Mhm.
And the Ice Style
seems to be a rare jutsu
that's used by shinobi
whose roots come from
the Land of Snow.
I get what you're saying.
Maybe whoever used
the Ice Style
is able to bring
their body temperature
down to minus 20 degrees,
right?
That's an astute observation.
And that's the reason
the thermal sensors
didn't go off in the safe.
Plus, if the suspect used
the Ice Style
before they even entered
the safe,
it would explain
how the flower got frozen
in the first place.
We have to let Mr. Kotaro know
right away.
Hold on a second.
Don't you remember?
The missions that involve
confronting shinobi
are B‐ranked.
Genin like us
can only participate
in missions up to C‐rank.
So if you're gonna go report
this information,
we'll be the stupid suckers
who get completely
left out of the loop.
Are you saying
we should pretend
that we don't know
any of this?
You got a problem with that?
It's a great idea.
Then it's decided.
All right,
do you have any info
on where these guys are?
Honestly, I don't have a clue.
Well then, why did you go and
get our hopes up so high?
It's too hard with just this.
We could ask Shino Sensei.
He might know something
about Ice Style.
Except if we go to him,
then he'll figure out
that we were trying to
take on the shinobi
all by ourselves.
There must be somebody
we can rely on
to help us figure this out.
I do have one person in mind,
but I don't know about him.
He's kinda strange.
Today is the day when
I'll take a giant step forward
in ninjutsu research!
Oomph!
Wha‐‐?
Oh...uh...
Oh, well, gee,
that was really embarrassing.
You see I was
experimenting with
being able to
go through a wall.
But as you can see,
I'm still a little ways off.
How do you know
this guy again?
He's an old acquaintance
who hangs around my dad.
He does "weird research"
and invites himself over
to the house a lot.
Oh...Young Lord.
I just have a passion
for innovation is all.
But every time he comes over
to our house,
he manages to slip me
the newest game software.
(KATASUKE)
Speaking of which, Young Lord,
I got a hold of another one!
Really?!
Did he say Young Lord?
Hey, Boruto...
Huh?
Uh, oh yeah...
We have an important
question for you.
Do you know anything
about Ice Style?
Last time...
[chattering]
[yawn]
A paper bomb?
Yeah, I found it in
my dad's room!
[laughing]
This could be fun!
So what're you gonna do?
Just watch me.
Don't you move!
[gasp]
Ah!
[pained grunt]
Ouch! That hurt!
Then why don't you stop
pulling stupid pranks
like that?
Hm?
[pained groans and crying]
Wait here. I'll go and
get some ice for you.
Let's go.
Yes.
If one were to use
Ice Style jutsu...
it's absolutely possible
to sneak into a safe
without ever triggering
the alarm's sensors!
Yes that's what we suspected.
A gang of thieves who
use Ice Style jutsu?!
How interesting!
Do you have any idea
where thieves like that
might hang out?
I'm not sure if this will be
any help, but...
I do know of one place that
might provide a few clues.
I didn't know there was
something like this
in the village.
I'm not surprised that
you didn't know, Young Lord.
Usually villages have several
undiscovered sides to them.
(MITSUKI) There are a lot of
interesting things here,
(KATASUKE) This is just
the tip of the iceberg.
This village has
a black market where items
that can never be made public
are bought and sold.
Due to the nature of my work,
sometimes,
I come down here and visit.
Recently, I found
a peculiar posting.
This is a message board
strictly for those
who wish to barter secretly.
(MITSUKI)
It's not just graffiti?
No look.
This section is looking
for a buyer
of the stolen jewels
that you're searching for.
The trade is set for
tomorrow afternoon.
That's gotta be
our perpetrator.
How about if we pretend to be
the buyer of the jewels
and then,
we can ambush them?!
Damn Byakuya Gang!
I'm gonna get
those guys for sure!
Oh... Here's the part
I've been looking for!
The elusive Kagemasa
Limited Edition Doll
is for sale down here,
Young Lord!
[chattering and giggles]
Damn it, really?
This strategy's all wrong.
I'm really in a rut now.
I can't think it through
all by myself anymore.
(RYOGI) Hey...
Huh?!
I think you might've
dropped this.
Oh...
Now I see,
I was missing a piece.
Thanks a lot!
Mm.
I...uh, watched
how you saved
that boy earlier today
in the village.
Oh, back there?
Yeah, that was
kind of embarrassing.
Why is that embarrassing?
You were just
trying to help him.
It's not a big deal.
This game you're playing
is really ancient.
[sigh]
How come you're playing alone?
You don't have any friends
to play with?
Are you always this impolite?
(RYOGI)
What do you mean?
I guess if you're someone
who makes snide remarks
all the time,
then you can protect yourself
from getting hurt.
Humph.
Can't argue with that.
So the rules are that
each piece can only make
certain moves, right?
Yeah, but I'm sure you're
gonna say it's boring.
No I'm not.
I think
it's pretty interesting.
Hm?
They say shogi without pawns
is a loser's game.
But even
the weakest‐looking pawn...
should never be disregarded.
So it looks like every pawn
is there to protect
the King, huh?
They only have one purpose
and that's to serve him.
You bet. That's the name of
the game all right.
How 'bout this?
Checkmate.
Wait a minute.
Are you kidding me?
How do I get out from
under you now?
Well, aren't you the King?
Yeah and the game is over
if the King is taken.
So you're absolutely correct.
Then I guess I'm a pawn.
A pawn who makes it
into enemy territory
is called an upstart,
and gets promoted to
a Gold General.
(RYOGI)
Hmmm...
So it turns into
another piece?
It's not just the pawn.
The Silver General
and the Knight too...
They can all become
Gold Generals.
I see.
Well...
checkmate.
No way, seriously?!
[chuckle]
No do‐overs
in this game, right?
No, but we could play again.
What is that piece?
I can't tell.
Do you have a Rook?
(RYOGI)
The Silver General.
Time to quit!
I can't even see the pieces.
Oh yeah,
it's gotten really dark, huh?
I usually play with my dad,
but every time we play,
he always wins.
So today was kinda fun.
Sounds like your father's
good at this game.
What does he do?
He's an aide to the Hokage.
Oh that's pretty cool.
You can have this.
Are you sure?
Yeah, I have more
at home anyway.
Keep practicing really hard.
And then...
If you want,
we can play again tomorrow.
[chuckle]
I'm home.
Oh, you're back
unusually early.
I gotta eat dinner
with my family
once in a while, don't I?
[chuckle]
[humming]
Huh?
Ah...
Hi, Dad.
I see you're finally
getting serious
about learning how to
play the game, huh?
No, I'm just messing around.
You seem rather happy.
‐ Huh?
‐ Did something happen?
Not really.
Anyway, can you teach me
some new board tactics?
Let's see...
It's a little too soon
to teach you Climbing Silver.
Don't be stingy Dad.
By the way, did I hear
something about Boruto
being up to
his old tricks again?
Beats me.
I saw him and Mitsuki earlier
buying some weird clothes.
Oh yeah?
Now that sounds exactly like
something his old man
would do back in the day.
I get it now.
Very good.
Climbing Silver uses soldiers
to attack the enemy.
Back when I was
a snotty‐nosed little kid...
Dinner's ready, guys!
So you gotta remember
that sacrifice
is the price you pay
to protect the King
from an opponent who is
much better than you are.
Gotcha...
Did you hear me?
Dinner's ready.
I remember how much I hated
to learn strategies like this
when I was your age.
Mhm.
Humph!
But lemme tell ya,
one day my Sensei said‐‐
[gasp]
Ah! Dad?!
Huh?
I said, dinner's ready,
damn it!
‐ Ahhh!
Good, you're right on time.
The gold is in here.
I brought the gold
just like I promised.
Before I hand it over, let me
see the goods you brought.
Toss the bag over here.
First, hand over the jewels.
We can cancel this
at any moment, you know.
Sarada! Right now!
[struggling]
Boruto Uzumaki of Team 7
is here! Look out!
I wouldn't make a fuss
if I were you.
Now hand over those jewels!
‐ [struggling]
‐ [gasp]
[gasp]
Wind Style: Wind Scythe Jutsu!
Don't move...
If you do, that man will die.
[gasps]
(SARADA)
Paper Bombs!
I was being threatened
by them...
I was set up!
Looks like the Byakuya Gang
are lowlifes that really
like to play dirty.
Same goes for you.
Why do you always side
with the rich?
Huh?
Our operation is nothing
but charitable.
We take from the rich
and give to the poor.
That is our grand
and noble mission!
You steal from people,
then turn around and
call it noble?!
The rich themselves
are thieves
who've stolen happiness
from the poor,
all for their own greed!
That is the dumbest excuse
I've ever heard!
Oh really?
I guess it's too hard
for a spoiled Leaf brat
to understand.
If you want the jewels
that much...
you can have them.
[gasp]
[grunting]
Huh?
Follow him!
That's so strange.
How come he didn't use
those Paper Bombs?
I have no idea.
And look at
these frozen tracks.
It's like he left
an invitation
for us to follow him.
You think it's a trap?
(BORUTO) Even if it is,
we've got to go!
(SARADA)
Look!
It's some kind of
equipment to draw water.
(MITSUKI)
I wonder if it's broken.
Looks like it.
Keep your guard up.
[chattering]
Something's strange here.
Mm.
Listen up!
Did a guy in a scary mask
just come by?!
‐ Ah! My legs!
‐ Damn!
(RYOJI) Take a good look
around you, Boruto Uzumaki.
[gasps]
This village is
high above ground.
Can you understand how
precious water is here?
The only way to get it
is to draw it
from the river below
with a water wheel!
What're you talking about?
Unfortunately,
the water wheel broke down
from being used too much.
As a result,
the villagers have to walk
three hours one way
just to get drinking water.
You live in the city,
without a care in the world.
Bet you can't
even imagine this.
How come they don't fix
the water wheel then?
Do you think a poor village
like this one
can afford the cost of
fixing it?!
[gasp]
Humph.
I'll let you in on
something interesting.
Those jewels are no longer
in my possession.
Then where are they?!
[gasp]
Hey, the water wheel
started working!
Don't you get it?
The jewels that were just
locked away in the safe
became the funds to repair
the village water wheel!
[gasp]
[chattering]
Mommy, is there enough
water for us?
Don't worry, sweetheart.
Try taking your jewels
back now, Boruto Uzumaki!
Uh...?
Boruto, what's going on?
[chattering]
I've been looking
all over for ya!
I told you not to take
any action on your own.
Big Bro Konohamaru...
I couldn't...
Don't worry about
the jewelry heist.
All of the losses will be
fully covered by insurance.
So don't give it
another thought.
I know that I can
do better next time.
Listen to me, Boruto...
You don't have enough
experience under your belt
to get depressed over
one or two missions
that happened to fail.
Don't forget that.
[sigh]
(GEKKO)
You're late.
So your plan was
to use the jewels
as a lure to get money
from foolish rich people?
I wanted to help
as many people as I could,
just like you.
Yet, you failed miserably.
[gasp]
Your desire is noble...
But don't be impatient.
I'm already working
on my next plan.
[gasp]
And we're depending on
the strategy you came up with.
I have guard duty.
Excuse me.
[exhale] He's gotten a little
too big for his britches.
Hm?
Uh...
Are you playing
all by yourself?
I'd be happy to play a game
or two with you.
No, it's okay.
I'm actually
waiting for someone.
Ah, I see...
I'm sorry to bother you then.
[chuckle]
I guess I should've asked
his name at least.
(BORUTO) Huh?!
It's you guys again!
Come back!
(SHIKADAI) We can't.
We don't have authorization
to engage!
(TEMARI)
You guys, lend me a hand!
Just create a diversion!
(SHIKADAI)
Huh?!
Shouldn't we just keep
an eye on the situation?
(BORUTO) Next time on Boruto:
Naruto Next Generations:
"Shikadai's Doubts"
(TEMARI) At this rate,
you'll end up letting
the important things
pass you by.